{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15700\viewh19200\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0  TestLOG\
Results summary:\
\
\
1. MLE using the reference trajectory in pgas (oscillates around these numbers)\
                                         a1=0.7; b1= 25; s1=1;   a2 =- 0.2; d1 = 0.75\
                                           (a1, s1)      |  (  b1, s1)         (a2,s1)  ( a1-2, s1 )       ( a12b1, s1)       (  d1, s1)\
 Markov+ linearObs          (
\b 0.71, 0.94
\b0 ) |   (
\b 24.1,0.95
\b0 )    \
 M+nonlinearObs              (0.8,0.5)      |  (50,0.7)\
 nMM+linear                      ( 0.9,1.5)    |  (0.8,0.5)      |  (0,1.2)        \
 nMM + nonlinearObs       ( 1.05,0.7)  |  (90,0.67)      |      \
\
2. SAEM-pgas:\
                                         a1=0.7; b1= 25; s1=1;   a2 =- 0.2; d1 = 0.75\
                                           (a1, s1)      |  (  b1, s1)         (a2,s1)  ( a1-2, s1 )       ( a12b1, s1)       (  d1, s1)\
 Markov+ linearObs          (
\b 0.71, 0.85
\b0 ) |   (
\b 24.1,0.8
\b0 5)    \
 M+nonlinearObs              (0.8,0.5)      |  (50,0.7)\
 nMM+linear                      ( 0.9,0.7)    |  (40,0.7)      |  (0,0.7)        \
 nMM + nonlinearObs       ( 1.06,1.3)  |  (90,
\b 0.9
\b0 )      |      \
\
3. OnlineEM: \
                                         a1=0.7; b1= 25; s1=1;   a2 =- 0.2; d1 = 0.75\
                                           (a1, s1)      |  (  b1, s1)         (a1,b1,s1)  ( a1-2, s1 )       ( a12b1, s1)       (  d1, s1)\
 Markov+ linearObs                       |                 |       singular\
 M+nonlinearObs                          | \
 nMM+linear                      (\
 nMM + nonlinearObs       (  |      \
\
\
\
====== 2018-8-27 === \
1. Tested MLE_refpath again. \
2. code SAEM-PGAS and online EM: SMC-FG\
1a. The noise V: shall we estimate it? Or use the samples?\
\'97 Estimate V \'97>>>> use the parameters in previous step   <<<< this would give V samples\
\'97 use V samples but iterate:  \
1b. \
\
====== 2018-8-15 === \
 \'97 Bayes: tN =10^4\
    + close but biased estimators for a1, a2, underestimate for sigma\
    + the MLE is good, with eig(regression matrix) >1\
\
\
====== 2018-7-1 === \
\'97 Tested: mle is (BayesMLE fusion)\
Bayes:       theta12                                       \
       Gaussian       theta1<<, theta2>>, sv<<  ||    >>> inflation1.1  to sV: no change thetaEst\
        uniform          theta12Ok, sV >>              ||   >>> inflation0.95 to sV: no change thetaEst \
     ~ Here << under-estimate, >> over-estimate \
                 theta3\
        Gaussian       theta3OK   sV <<              ||    >>> inflation1.4  to sV: no change thetaEst\
        uniform          theta12Ok, sV >>              ||   >>> inflation0.95 to sV: no change thetaEst \
\
MLE:             theta12                              \
       Gaussian       theta3OK, theta2>>, sv<<  ||    >>> inflation1.1  to sV: no change thetaEst\
        uniform          theta12Ok, sV >>              ||   >>> inflation0.95 to sV: no change thetaEst \
MLE-refpath: theta1\
        Gaussian: (estimate the noise variance) \
                          underestimate  \'97 if use V sample, \
                          huge                \'97 if use residual    \
SAEM:     underestimate if use V sample; large if use residual \
\
\
====== 2018-6-30 === \
\'97 Identifiability: a1, a2 OK. If combined with others, no. \
    + This is tested using MLE from the true X and V. \cf2 ~~~ WHY THIS regression DOES NOT WORK? Strange.  \
\cf0 \'97 Tested Bayes-MLE fusion: using MLE in the Gibbs update of parameter. \
     + It seems that the pgas makes MLE worse \'97\'97 the first trajectory from SMC seems to be the best. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'97 TODO: \
     + test MLE for a single trajectory of SMC\
 \cf3     + Bayes sampling: change the posterior sampling of theta, allow for sampling some components of theta.      \cf2 \'97 DONE\cf0 \
\
====== 2018-6-27 === \
\'97 estimate parameter and state, with even and odd observation functions. Uniform distribution. \
    + The results are not good: bad distribution for b1, d1.  \
\
\'97 Working on: Estimate variance\
}